Let's assume that you just got back from a team meeting,
and you've now been tasked with making a custom
Docker image that the team could use, and specifically,
you need to build a Node.js image.
Now to do that,
we're going to need to build a custom Dockerfile, and we're
going to need to add instructions into it.
Now, once we're done with that, I'll show you a little bit later,
we can then use Docker client to actually build that into an image.
And then, of course, we can convert the image into a running container.
So let's take a look at how we can do this.
So I have some code here for a Node.js Express site,
and this is the same one generated from Express generator,
and I want to call out one thing in the package.json file.
You'll notice that we have an npm start command that can be run,
and when that runs,
it actually runs the node command and then points to a file called www here.
Alright,
that's going to come into play in just a moment as we make this Dockerfile.
Now,
the next thing I have in here is I've already added
an empty file called Dockerfile.
Now it turns out you can actually name it whatever you want.
This is the standard format,
but if I wanted to rename it to something like
node.dockerfile just to give it an extension,
I could definitely do that.
And when I have just one Dockerfile in a project,
then I'll usually just go with the de facto standard,
which is this Dockerfile, this one here.
But if you have multiple or you just want to give it a more explicit name,
then you certainly can rename it.
It's just a text file.
Now, the first thing we're going to do is use the from instruction.
Now the from instruction instructs Docker,
I want to build this particular image that we're going
to make from another base image,
and because we're going to be doing Node.js in this example,
I'm going to base it on the official node repository
image that's up on hub.docker.com.
Now this particular image has a lot of different versions.
So you could do this alone, and that would be like doing this,
latest,
and that will always grab the latest version of Node
every time you rebuild the image.
Now that could be good, that could be bad because,
you know, it could be you don't want to move forward with the latest version,
but you could also come in and we could specify a different version,
for instance, if we wanted as well.
Now I'm going to go ahead and go with the latest one here,
and I do like to put latest in cases where I want to grab the latest,
because it makes it really obvious, even though,
as I mentioned, this is the default that will grab the latest,
but I like to be explicit.
So we're going to go ahead and do that.
Now,
the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to say that I'm the
maintainer of this particular Dockerfile,
and then you can give your name, you could put your email address,
whatever you want on this line.
So this is a little bit more of just metadata,
but it's good to have as other people look at your Dockerfile,
maybe they want to get in touch with you for whatever reason.
Now the next instruction I'm going to put is called expose.
I'm going to say that we would like this particular image and the
container that comes out of this to actually run on 3000,
and that's because that's what the Express side by default will run on.
Now, when we do Docker run, as you've seen,
we can actually map different ports if we want,
but this will give the default.
And then finally, I'm going to put something called ENTRYPOINT,
and the ENTRYPOINT command is when the container actually gets started up,
what is the entry point to fire up that container,
and for us, it's going to be the npm start command.
So I'm going to put npm start.
Now something interesting about this,
you'll notice I'm putting it in a JSON array.
In fact, I have to put the double quotes in this case,
because it is a JSON array; it's treating it that way under the covers.
Now, I could do this as well,
but the normal recommended way that most people will tell you anyway,
is to go with something like this.
Alright, so there we have it.
We now have our very first node image.
Now, it hasn't really done a whole lot,
because I could have just done a Docker run on the
node image up in Docker hub itself.
And the only thing I've gained here is I put who the maintainer was,
really, not a whole lot.
You know, I did put the default entry point.
Okay, that could be useful,
but there's no source code that's going to be built in this image,
so we'd have to use volume support to make that happen.
So let's take this up just a notch and see what we can do here with it.
So let's say that part of the requirements for making this image was
that we needed to copy some source code into it so that when other
people on the team run the container, they don't really have to do anything.
Maybe it's going to be a Node.js RESTful API,
maybe it's just a web app that's just going to be running that will
be hit from some other container potentially.
So what I'd like to do first is come on in and use another
instruction for Dockerfile called COPY, and COPY does kind of what it says.
It allows you to copy in whatever you want.
It could be an individual file.
It could be an entire folder structure, but we're going to copy the
entire project that you see over here on the left.
That's everything in here.
And I'd like to copy that into the var/www,
and that's just a folder structure I'm going to go with to
say that's what we want our code to run.
And what that will do is now bake the source code as a file layer into that
layered file system that Docker builds up for images.
And so now our code is going to be in there,
it's baked in, it's going to be ready to go.
We could also then come in and set the work directory.
What the work directory allows us to do is set the context for
different commands we might want to run.
Where does it run them from?
Does it run them from the root?
Does it run them in this folder called var/www?
It's kind of up to you.
So I'm going to say, yes, we want to run it from this var/www.
Now, the reason that's important is when I use instructions like run,
which is another one that's built into Docker and the Dockerfile,
then it needs to know, in some cases,
the folder where the context is where that should be run.
So, for instance, if I run something like npm install,
then we probably are going to want to run that
where the package.json is located.
Had I not put the work directory,
then we would have to actually tell it the context of where to run
this command so it can find that package.json,
and find all these dependencies that it might want to add to get those going.
Alright,
so the work directory you'll find is actually pretty common and very useful,
especially for us as developers,
because our images might need to run some specific
commands in that folder or that location.
Now,
the other thing we can do that's related to this work directory is we
could say that maybe we want it for whatever reason on the host system
where the container is ultimately going to run,
and we know how to do that, and that's to use volumes.
So I could actually come in and say volume, and then I could give it var/www.
Now that alone is going to cause Docker,
once the container runs, to mount this particular volume that's in the container,
onto a folder or into a folder on the host file system.
And we talked about this in a previous module in pretty good depth,
but this would set that scenario up, and it's really useful.
We might even have multiple volumes.
Maybe this app needs to write to, we'll just pretend there's a logs area.
Well, we could set up a volume so that the logs actually stick around,
even if the container is deleted, and then maybe brought back up at a later time.
So that's what the volume command can do.
Now, I'm just going to leave this in here just to show it.
Keep in mind that with the Docker run command that we
looked at in previous modules in the course,
I showed you how we can actually set up a volume; it was the ‑v switch,
and we can point that, for instance, to the source code on our developer machine.
But in this case,
we're going to go ahead and use the volume just so we can kind of see it here.
Alright, now,
the last thing we're going to do is let's assume that also that this
needs to run with certain environment variables,
maybe, for instance, our code.
We're going to expose it here,
but maybe instead of using this when they run the container,
they might specify a different port.
Maybe in production, it's port 8080 or something like that.
Well, we can use environment variables as well.
Now, I normally like to put these up at the top,
although they can go in different places.
It depends on if you're going to use them in the Dockerfile or not,
but in this case, we're just going to make an environment variable,
and I'm going to make two of them.
We're going to do the node environment,
and let's just assume we want production for this particular container,
instead of the default, which would be development.
Let's go back to production,
and then I could right here do another named value pair,
as you'll see these environment variables are just the
name of the environment variable, and then the value.
And I could just do another one,
but I'm going to break it into two steps so you can
see the separate instructions.
Let's say we also want to put a default port,
and I'm going to go ahead and leave 3000,
that is what Express runs,
but this would be an environment variable that your
Node.js code can now read from.
So now when that container gets fired up,
and if this is for production, you could potentially say a different port,
maybe for production containers or something like that.
Now I'm going to go ahead and match it with the EXPOSE that we have here,
but the goal again is just to show you that,
yeah, we can do environment variables.
So that's an example of a custom Dockerfile that does a few things.
Number one, as a review, it pulls in the latest Node.js image.
We say who the maintainer is.
We define two environment variables that will be in
and available to that container.
We copy our local source code from here into the
image into a folder called var/www, which is also our working directory,
and it's going to be set up as a volume,
which in this case means the Docker host would actually be
where that source code is going to live.
But we can override that again with Docker run.
We're going to run the npm install command,
because we need to get our dependencies installed once that container is
going, EXPOSE port 3000 for the internal port for our container, and then
we're going to have our entry point as npm start,
and that would be an example of a Dockerfile.
Now, before we wrap this up, I'm going to clean it up just a little bit,
because I don't want to actually put this here and here for the port,
because if we are going to be running dynamically
based on a port that code loads,
and I probably want to expose that same type of thing. So we
can actually use environment variables, and I can do something like this.
And what the image will do is once this is defined,
it will then go and apply that exact value,
which in this case will be 3000 right there.
And there's a few other spots we could potentially even do that,
maybe even for in these areas.
But we'll go ahead and leave it right now,
because I don't need to set that as an environment variable,
but the port might be something.
So now the EXPOSE will actually read it from the environment variable value.
So that's an example of some of the key Dockerfile instructions you can use.
There are certainly many, many others out there,
but these are the key ones that you need to get started with.
So now what we're going to learn about is how do we take this and actually convert it and build it into an image?